Migrate from stable to nightly and vice versa (#20551)
netdata/netdata: docs/netdata-agent/versions-and-platforms.md

# Netdata Agent Versions & Platforms

Netdata is evolving rapidly and new features are added at a constant pace. Therefore, we have a frequent release cadence to deliver all these features to you as soon as possible.

> You can choose from 2 Netdata Agent versions:

Reviewer: Not critical that we change this, but perhaps it might make more sense to refer to release channels here instead of versions?

Author: I am thinking we change this as you propose

|   **Nightly**   |         Most nights around 02:00 UTC          |               Latest pre-released features                | Up to the 2nd nightly release after them |Configuration and data of unreleased features may change between nightly releases|

:::info  

**Support Duration** defines how long we consider each release actively used in production systems. After this period, you should update to the latest release to continue receiving bug fixes and security updates.

:::

## Switching Between Stable and Nightly Builds

You can switch between stable and nightly channels depending on your needs. The method depends on how you originally installed Netdata.

<details>
<summary><strong>For Native Package Installations</strong></summary><br/>

If you installed Netdata using our native packages (RPM, DEB), you can switch channels by updating your repository configuration:

**Method 1: Using Package Manager (Recommended)**

```bash
# Switch from nightly to stable
sudo apt install netdata-repo  # This will uninstall netdata-repo-edge automatically
# Or for RPM-based systems:
sudo yum install netdata-repo  # This will uninstall netdata-repo-edge automatically

> ```

Reviewer: Please re-check the document I sent you about switching release channels, this is _not_ all that needs to be done.

Separately, ‘RPM-based systems’ needs to be split based into openSUSE (which uses `zypper` not `yum`), RHEL/CentOS 7 (which do use `yum`), and everything else (which use `dnf`).

Reviewer: Yeah, I think just referencing the new guide is probably the best way to approach things here.

**Method 2: Manual Repository Update**

1. Update your repository configuration to point to the desired channel
2. Reinstall the Netdata package using your system package manager

> 

Reviewer: This approach should not be recommended, it is very likely to break the next time we publish a new version of the repository configuration packages.

</details>

<br />

<details>
<summary><strong>For Kickstart Script Installations</strong></summary><br/>

If you installed using the kickstart script, switching channels is straightforward:

**Switch to Stable Channel:**
```bash
wget -O /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh https://get.netdata.cloud/kickstart.sh
sh /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh --stable-channel --reinstall
```

**Switch to Nightly Channel:**
```bash
wget -O /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh https://get.netdata.cloud/kickstart.sh
sh /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh --nightly-channel --reinstall
```

> </details>

Reviewer: A vast majority of users who are using our native packages installed using the kickstart script, so we need to phrase things differently here.

We can probably safely combine this with the next section about static builds and label it as being for static builds or local builds.

Author: and remove this completely as the separate md covered everything

|  Platform  | Platform Versions |    Released Packages Architecture    |
|:----------:|:-----------------:|:------------------------------------:|
| **Arch Linux** |      Latest       | All the Arch supported architectures |

## Builds from Source

We guarantee that you can build Netdata from source for the platforms where we provide automated binary packages. These platforms are automatically checked via our CI, and fixes are always applied to allow merging new code into the nightly versions.

The following builds from source should usually work for you, although we don't regularly monitor if there are issues:

|              Platform               |     Platform Versions      |
|:-----------------------------------:|:--------------------------:|
|      **Linux Distributions**       | Latest unreleased versions |
|    **FreeBSD and derivatives**     |         14-STABLE          |
|     **Gentoo and derivatives**     |           Latest           |
|   **Arch Linux and derivatives**   |      latest from AUR       |
|             **MacOS**               |         13, 14, 15         |

## Static Builds and Unsupported Linux Versions

> You can run Netdata's static builds on any Linux platform with supported architecture, requiring only a functioning Linux kernel of any version. These self-contained packages include everything you need for Netdata to operate effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run Netdata's static builds on any Linux platform with a supported CPU architecture, requiring only a kernel version of 2.6 or newer. These self-contained packages include everything you need for Netdata to operate effectively.
```

We actually do have a minimum required kernel version somewhere in the 2.6 series (though we’ve not ever actually sorted out what it is, but it’s unlikely that will matter for most users).

### Limitations of Static Builds

When you use static builds, you'll miss certain features that require specific operating system support, including:

- IPMI hardware sensors monitoring

> - systemd-journal functionality

Reviewer: We can remove this, nightlies include this support since yesterday’s nightly, and regular releases will include it starting with the next minor release.

# Netdata Agent Versions & Platforms

Netdata is evolving rapidly and new features are added at a constant pace. Therefore, we have a frequent release cadence to deliver all these features to you as soon as possible.

You can choose from 2 Netdata Agent versions:

| Release Channel |               Release Frequency               |                 Support Policy & Features                 |             Support Duration             |                              Backwards Compatibility                              |
|:---------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

> |   **Stable**    | At most once per month, usually every 45 days | Receiving bug fixes and security updates between releases | Up to the 2nd stable release after them  |     Previous configuration semantics and data are supported by newer releases     |

Reviewer: The release frequency listed here is horribly inaccurate, but we don’t actually have a properly defined release schedule (our actual release schedule at the moment is ‘whenever Costa decides we should have a new release’).

In practice, it’s usually 4-6 major/minor releases per year plus patch releases as needed.

> |   **Nightly**   |           Every night at 00:00 UTC            |               Latest pre-released features                | Up to the 2nd nightly release after them |Configuration and data of unreleased features may change between nightly releases|

Reviewer: This should be ‘most nights around 02:00 UTC’.

We only actually publish nightlies if there are new changes since the last nightly build, and while the builds start at midnight UTC, they actually become available to users around 02:00 UTC.

sh /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh --static-only --nightly-channel --reinstall
```

:::tip  

Notes on Switching Channels

| Consideration | Details |
|:-------------|:--------|
| **Configuration Preservation** | Your existing configuration and data are preserved when switching between channels |
| **Downtime** | There will be brief downtime during the switch as the agent restarts |
| **Nightly Considerations** | Nightly builds automatically restart every night for updates, which may trigger brief connectivity alerts in Netdata Cloud |
| **Production Recommendations** | For production environments, stable channel is recommended for better predictability |

:::

## Binary Distribution Packages

We provide binary distribution packages via CI integration for the following platforms and architectures:

|        Platform         |        Platform Versions         |          Released Packages Architecture          |    Format    |
|:-----------------------:|:--------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------:|:------------:|
| **Docker under Linux** |         19.03 and later          | `x86_64`, `i386`, `ARMv7`, `AArch64`, `POWER8+`  | docker image |

> |   **Static Builds**    |                -                 | `x86_64`, `ARMv6`, `ARMv7`, `AArch64`, `POWER8+` |   .gz.run    |

Reviewer: We no longer publish POWER8+ builds for either of these. Not sure how I missed this document in the PR that removed them.

|    **Oracle Linux**    |             8.x, 9.x             |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
| **Redhat Enterprise Linux** |               7.x                |                     `x86_64`                     |     RPM      |
| **Redhat Enterprise Linux** |             8.x, 9.x             |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
|       **Ubuntu**       |       20.04, 22.04, 23.10        |       `x86_64`, `i386`, `ARMv7`, `AArch64`       |     DEB      |

:::important  

Linux distributions frequently provide binary packages of Netdata. However, the packages you will find in the distributions' repositories **may be outdated, incomplete, missing significant features or completely broken**. We recommend using the packages we provide.

:::

## Third-party Supported Binary Packages

The following distributions always provide the latest stable version of Netdata:

|  Platform  | Platform Versions |    Released Packages Architecture    |
|:----------:|:-----------------:|:------------------------------------:|
| **Arch Linux** |      Latest       | All the Arch supported architectures |

> | **MacOS Brew** |      Latest       | All the Brew supported architectures |

Reviewer: We should remove Homebrew here, they stopped publishing updated Netdata packages a while back.

## Builds from Source

We guarantee that you can build Netdata from source for the platforms where we provide automated binary packages. These platforms are automatically checked via our CI, and fixes are always applied to allow merging new code into the nightly versions.

The following builds from source should usually work for you, although we don't regularly monitor if there are issues:

|              Platform               |     Platform Versions      |
|:-----------------------------------:|:--------------------------:|
|      **Linux Distributions**       | Latest unreleased versions |
|    **FreeBSD and derivatives**     |         14-STABLE          |
|     **Gentoo and derivatives**     |           Latest           |
|   **Arch Linux and derivatives**   |      latest from AUR       |
|             **MacOS**               |         13, 14, 15         |

> | **Linux under Microsoft Windows (WSL)** |           Latest           |

Reviewer: This should be removed. It theoretically works, but nobody should _ever_ be using Netdata in this way for multiple reasons.

Author: @Ferroin Have incorporated all your notes in the final md :)

|    **Alma Linux**      |             8.x, 9.x             |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
|   **Amazon Linux**     |             2, 2023              |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
|      **Centos**        |               7.x                |                     `x86_64`                     |     RPM      |
|       **Debian**       |         10.x, 11.x, 12.x         |       `x86_64`, `i386`, `ARMv7`, `AArch64`       |     DEB      |
|       **Fedora**       |            37, 38, 39            |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
|      **OpenSUSE**      | Leap 15.4, Leap 15.5, Tumbleweed |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
|    **Oracle Linux**    |             8.x, 9.x             |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |
| **Redhat Enterprise Linux** |               7.x                |                     `x86_64`                     |     RPM      |
| **Redhat Enterprise Linux** |             8.x, 9.x             |               `x86_64`, `AArch64`                |     RPM      |

> |       **Ubuntu**       |       20.04, 22.04, 23.10        |       `x86_64`, `i386`, `ARMv7`, `AArch64`       |     DEB      |

Reviewer: This list actually needs significant updates, but I will take care of that myself in a separate PR.
